so what happens is we when the patient
enters the clinic complaining of some
bleeding or lump or whatever
we look at that and you can do
non-invasive Imaging you don't want to
poke the patient you don't want to take
punch biopsies or anything like this but
also first thing you do is you take a
comprehensive blood work and you'd be
surprised how many how the blood work is
is a is telling us what's going on
metabolically in your body and so many
people have fungal infections parasite
infections they're they're they're uh
trigly all their blood work looks really
whacked out so um well they got cancer
by the way oh you know you're sick your
bottom body is not metabolically healthy
and then you have to then put that move
that patient from uh you know you try to
get rid of the parasites you try to get
uh maybe maybe some chelation maybe
whatever it is to bring some level of of
homeostasis back then once the patient
gets into a more homeostatic State and
then you begin
slowly entering into a low carbohydrate
diet which can help the patient start
improving metabolic homeostasis slowly
not too aggressively and then as the
patient improves the blood work looks
better the patient's overall health
status improves then you can go to more
rigorous zero carb diets and even into a
ketogenic diet even into water only
fasting there's a lot of ways you bring
the blood sugars down and the ketones up
into this state of nutritional
therapeutic ketosis and as we published
in our big press pulse paper then the
oncologist or the physician the
attending physician would then
administer drugs in Low Dose that would
Target the glutamine there's no diet
that can Target the glutamine so you
need drugs but the drugs can be used in
very small quantities dosage timing and
scheduling to slowly degrade the tumor
while the rest of the body is getting
healthier and healthier so we're not
putting this patient into into a
tremendous stress we're improving the
physiology and health and well-being of
the patient while we are slowly
degrading the cancer by depriving the
tumor cells of the very two fuels that
they need while enhancing fuels that the
tumor cells can't use but provide the
rest of the body with energetic Health
which are the Ketone bodies we evolved
to burn Ketone bodies it keeps our
mitochondria in normal cells super
healthy the tumor cell mitochondria
can't use it the tumor cell can't use
ketones and the two fuels that you are
depriving them of are absolutely
essential okay makes perfect sense and
the science and the biochemistry that
we've done all validate this right now
here's another thing if you keep the
glucose low the body all the normal
cells in our body which you which can
use glucose through the glycolysis
system C glucose lowering they can burn
ketones and fatty acids but they will
burn the glucose now the glucose is
absolutely essential for the cancer cell
it's not an essential metabolite for the
normal cell but the normal cell will
upregulate its want of glucose so you're
Now using your normal cells to compete
directly against the cancer cells
putting them at a competitive
disadvantage while the specific drugs
are killing the tumor cells and not
harming the normal cells incredible
believable right it's incredible it
works it works great the problem is you
can't make a buck on it yet so until no
until somebody figures out how to make a
buck and what I just told you it's not
going to be used
so um listen if I had cancer is exactly
what I just told you is what I would do
and then one of the key drugs Don 60 oxy
nor Lucy which was used in cancer
clinics in the past at too high of a
concentration and not done with the full
spectrum of things that I just mentioned
it wasn't used anymore it said oh it
might be too toxic everything can be
toxic confused in the inappropriate way
what do you think radiation is not toxic
what do you think temazolamide is not
all these crazy drugs they've given us
car team you know therapy is not toxic
you're lucky you survive it so so
um so this argument that oh yeah well
why don't you want to use this uh this
drug well uh well it might be too toxic
you don't you don't want to use it
because you can't make a buck on it
that's the bottom line it's crazy yeah
so what is it people and the people just
get just get hurted like sheep into
these into these medical schools into
these oncology centers and they suffer
so much and they die many of them and
before they die and as I said it's like
it's like waterboarding these people I
mean so I have had some cancer patients
tell me JJ truck home with his kidney
cancer what he went through is worse
than waterboarding and when I asked them
I said JJ would you have rather been
waterboarded or go through the standard
of care like you did and try to survive
because I'd rather be waterboarded so um
I mean this is what we're doing to our
people I mean it's nuts
what am I supposed to say here I mean I
I write the papers I clearly show what
needs to be done how to do it publish
case reports showing people that should
have been dead or alive and oh we don't
believe it
what are you going to do I don't know
it's so wild and so why we asked Travis
Christopherson this question which I'll
ask you most treatments that you do
there's like a pro and then there's like
cons and he was reflecting on ketones
being this magic kind of thing that like
it's beneficial in the one way because
you're lowering your glucose and it's
beneficial the other way because you're
increasing ketones and like it's it's it
hits all those levels and then let's say
that it makes your cancer treatment
better but you also lose 20 pounds of
fat and maybe your blood pressure goes
down and there's all these other things
everything you were talking about
earlier also improve yes yes that's a
disaster that's a scary scary thing
that is a scary scary thing not for the
patient but for the industry with a
single kind of therapy that you're not
only getting rid of the cancer but many
of the other comorbidities the
individual had
that is like very uh scary uh for an
industry that's basic that's putting all
of its eggs into chronic diseases
because in one Fell Swoop oh by the way
this is what happened to guy town about
he had a terminal prostate cancer and he
went on these very long water only fasts
he had high blood pressure hypertension
type 2 diabetes and prostate cancer all
of which went away during his metabolic
therapy for getting rid of the prostate
cancer this is devastating I mean you're
you're losing you're you're you're
pulling the the the the the the
resources for a whole industry so you
don't want this who's going to come up
you think Dana Farber and MD Anderson
are going to come out and say let's do
this I mean then they'll never do this
NIH is giving all these million dollar
grants to study epiphenomena these
cancer cells I mean this is like a crazy
thing here but yet the people don't seem
there's no concerted there's no concern
on the part of the population
so what we have done is we have
fragmented the cancer industry into oh
I'm a I'm going to run for lung cancer
I'm going to bicycle for brain cancer
I'm going to walk for breast cancer
they're all the same man well these
cancers are very very similar they can't
survive without glucose and glutamine
and they can't burn ketones I mean we're
testing it in the lab all the time we
we're shocked about this then people
sometimes people come out say oh no
cancers I read where somebody says
cancer cells can burn ketones oh yeah
pull away the glucose and glutamine to
see if they can burn the Ketone no no
they can't burn ketones they got glucose
and glutamine it looks like they might
be burning ketones but they're burning
the glucose and glutamine we have never
found a cancer cell that can live on
ketones in the absence of glucose and
glutamine so um yeah I mean I I did all
the experiments I mean I don't know what
they want you know we're doing them all
the time publishing the papers and you
know we publish beautiful papers on
showing how you simultaneously Target
glucose and glutamine using you using
drugs and diets and it works beautifully
you know you keep these mice alive they
should be dead and they're picking them
up going living far longer than you'd
expect little kids I I feel so bad for
all these little kids you see them in
the hospitals there you know especially
the brain cancer kids and they're always
bald you know I told you anytime you see
a bald cancer patient that person is
being treated by somebody that doesn't
understand the biology of the disease
and then they have these Institute these
cancers they have to shave your head to
make you in an alliance with the cancer
patient I mean okay we're gonna be we
have to sh to raise money I'm going to
shave the hair off my head uh so I can
be what are you doing this is stupid man
you shouldn't you're trying to kill
cancer cells not make yourself bold I
mean metabolic therapy targets Precision
targeting of cancer cells while
enhancing the health and vitality of the
normal cells and you and nobody wants it
you can't sell it it's absolutely
chilling when you describe all of that
I've heard you talk about cancer as a
financial generating disease it's
mind-blowing and then when we were off
air talking about you know some of the
things you were going to talk about and
I asked you specifically what is
changing cancer research and treatment
in the last you know 18 20 months since
we last talked you said profit margins
profit margins have gotten better oh
yeah it's just it's chilly what what
kind of profit is worth that amount of
suffering like do people not like sleep
at night like what money is not worth
that oh yeah it is it's worth it for for
the industry are you kidding me uh
absolutely lutely money first patient
second it's under it's well I don't want
to talk about it I had one of my
students uh look at the interaction
between the food industry and the
pharmaceutical industry massive
cross-pollination you give them bad food
they get sick and you make drugs to to I
mean it is a big you're talking about a
multi
billion trillion dollar industry here so
the economy of the don't forget
um the business of America is business
uh this was uh
Wilson right president was it Wilson or
one of the presidents that was what he
said business of America is business so
business first and if we can find a drug
that really helps cancer patients and we
can make a good profit on it everybody's
happy right but but we got 1600 people a
day dying every day that a survival
needle is not moving we have been have
not moved this since uh even President
Nixon's 1971 war on cancer President
Biden's moonshot he calls it the
moonshot we're going to put all this
money into cancer because Democrats and
Republicans everybody can agree that
cancer is not good we're going to put
millions and dollars into
immunotherapies based on the somatic
mutation Theory therefore it's not going
to work don't they know that I keep
telling them that it's not not going to
work get over it oh but we have this guy
over here like Jimmy Carter whoa look at
little Jimmy you know he's Athena I have
to Grant you I mean the guy should have
been dead but he's alive but everybody
wants to be like Jimmy Carter and there
and so many of them are dying they're
not like Jimmy Carter so uh a metabolic
therapy can bring the majority of people
into a higher state of health without
the toxicity is it easy no it requires a
lot of personal discipline on the part
of the patient so the patient today goes
to the the cancer center and sits there
in a chair with an infusion of drugs and
then he goes and gets massively radiated
or whatever they're going to do to him
and he's not he's not a participant he's
a bystander in his own treatment okay
when you do metabolic therapy you are
now a participant in your outcome you
are not a bystander anymore you are a
participant so the out your outcome
depends on your participation and
compliance with the program and you are
educated at the same time you are being
treated and the oncologist is educating
you because he understands and in
medical schools we're not talking about
any so we're turning out Legions and
Legions of Physicians that know nothing
or very little about how we use
nutrition as part of the therapeutic
modality you see so we have a problem
here so it's an educational problem it's
a financial problem all these problems
come together but apparently the society
says that's okay
business as usual let's run